Read Alberto Cairo’s work, Graphics Lies, Misleading Visuals
Locate an example of a misleading visual that uses one or more of the mechanisms for misleading that Cairo outlines in his book chapter: (1) Hiding relevant data; (2) Displaying too much data and obscuring reality; (3) Distorting data through visual forms.
Please upload an image of this visual using a widely accessible graphic format (e.g., PDF, .jpg, .png)

Comparison of Swine flu and Covid total cases anf deaths

Briefly describe the context for the visual by addressing the following questions:
1.What is the source of the visual? (e.g., URL or bibliographic citation)
2.Who is the intended audience (i.e., decoders)? How do you know this?

During this period whatever social media platform we open there is some news regarding the Coronavirus. Recently while scrolling news from Yahoo News on 26th May 2020 which is regarding the Trump comparing the Coronavirus to the swine flu and considering H1N1 Swine Flu was a complete and total disaster. The chart is related to the comparison of total cases and deaths due to H1N1 Swine Flu and Coronavirus

1. Source of the visual : https://news.yahoo.com/trump-for-some-reason-compares-coronavirus-death-toll-over-98000-to-swine-flu...
2. Intended audience and how do I know it:  As the chart appeared on a Yahoo news, so the intended audience would be the general public. This means the chart should be formatted as such that it is easy to interpret for those educated in the subject and laymen alike. Predictably, this is not the case.



 1. Identify the specific component(s) of the visual that is/are misleading
 2. For each part(s) of the visualization that is/are misleading, identify the mechanism that is used: hiding relevant data to highlight what benefits us; displaying too much data to obscure reality; using graphic forms in inappropriate ways (distorting the data)
 3. Explain how the mechanisms are used to mislead

Sometimes, details or some parts of the news are hidden (and/or not explained clearly) deliberately. I think this chart is one of the examples of this "Misleading Visuals". It is also and the case of using "graphic forms in inappropriate ways" i.e. distorting the data.To understand the news correctly I read some of the details for the Swine flu spread and the Coronavirus and the outcome are following which highlight how falls under the category of Misleading information. Looking at the chart one can have conclusion that Swine flu had a more spread than Coronavirus.
1. It is true that there were an estimated 60.8 million cases and 12,469 deaths in the U.S. due to the H1N1 virus  The infection and death numbers for the 2009-2010 H1N1 (also known as swine flu) data was collected over the course of a year, while for Coronavirus reported death caused by the novel coronavirus in the U.S. was recorded on February 29, 2020 and the first case was recorded by on January 21, 2020. So the time span for both cases is not equal. Till now 1.6 million Americans have tested positive for COVID-19, ( this also depends upon how widely the testing has been performed) and also a much higher death rate and spread rate. Experts project that the total number of U.S. coronavirus infections and deaths will continue to rise over the coming months. It is misleading to compare the two outbreaks. For the flu, the world has vast experience and vaccines and treatments. Therefore the mortality rate is far lower than contagious fatal infection COVID.  The H1N1 death toll may sound high, it was far lower than initially expected. For the H1N1 fatality rate of just 0.02% so one should consider all the parameters in mind.   Any parameter or statistic can reveal interesting or useful information.
2. The Chart has no y-axis ( basically the range) though the grid indicates particular value but bar height appears random and not in any correlation with stated values with the bar.I n addition, bar heights are an example ‘using graphic forms in inappropriate ways’, because they seem to distort the data, and they are for that reason simply not informative to the viewer e.g the ratio of  98k deaths to 1.7m cases as well the height of others bars are not appropriate. 
Visualization tells us much more information quickly than text in addition to permanent. Especially in the case of news media, we are presented with information we are meant to glance over, and visuals can easily mislead if we are not aware of the underlying mechanisms outlined e.g. by Alberto Cairo.
